[Music]
hello there well well well um this is
weird isn't it this is definitely weird
look as you can clearly tell this is not
going to be our usual show this week for
a start
there is no audience and also we're not
even in our usual studio partly because
we do like to shake things up a bit now
and then whenever we can and also partly
because our actual studio might be full
of coronavirus I'm actually serious
about that both the place where we
normally tape on Sunday and our office
building had confirmed cases of
coronavirus this week so our staff has
been working from home and we're
currently taping this somewhere else
with a very limited crew on this white
void set it kind of looks like the place
movie characters go when they've just
died or where they shot the kars4kids
commercial very much by the way the
coronavirus of commercials in that it is
horrific ly infectious and ruins
people's lives now obviously we're not
the only ones who've had to make big
adjustments to our lives because this
was the week that the coronavirus for
many people here in the u.s.
seemed to go from an abstraction to a
very real threat and maybe the best sign
of just how fast it all happened came as
it always seems to from Rudy Gobert of
the Utah Jazz the Utah Jazz basketball
team will be quarantined here in
Oklahoma City for the foreseeable future
that according to ESPN before the game
Rudy Gobert spoke to the Utah media
joking about possibly being sick and
then did this making a point to touch
every microphone and recorder hours
later we got the news that he tests
positive for the corona virus yeah of
course he did nice work there
Rudy no I would say that that feels too
stupid to actually be real but let's try
and remember that this is also the
timeline in which the official White
House Twitter account once tweeted first
snow of the year on a 63 degree day on
which and this is true it did not snow
so honestly in many ways what Rudy
Gobert did was
actually just stupid enough now that
happened on Monday and things just
spiraled from there America's major
sports were suspended as was hockey
March Madness was canceled and as if
that weren't enough Rita Wilson and her
husband Tom
hashtag feminism announced that they had
tested positive for the corona virus
we've also learned political figures
from all over have tested positive -
including an Iranian vice president a UK
health minister and the mayor of Miami
and that is just at the time that we are
taping this we are clearly in the midst
of a rapidly escalating outbreak and
it's very difficult to say exactly where
things stand
especially because despite from
repeatedly claiming otherwise tests for
this virus are still not available in
most places to those who need them which
means that we can't yet properly track
the virus or know how quickly it is
spreading that is not only catastrophic
because we're having to fly blind in
fighting this pandemic it's also deeply
frustrating especially when you see how
quickly other countries like South Korea
ramped up their testing capabilities and
that is part of the reason why it was
actually genuinely refreshing to hear
the top US official on infectious
diseases dr. Anthony Fauci say this on
Thursday about our current testing
system the system does not is not really
geared to what we need right now that is
a failing and yeah it is a failing let's
admit it the idea of anybody getting it
easily the way people in other country
are doing it we're not set up for that
do I think we should be yes but we're
not no we are not and incidentally if
you find yourself really appreciating
how calm knowledgeable and thorough
Falchi is you're frankly not alone on
that he has been a rare source of
clarity in the Trump administration's
response and you should know he is the
nation's leading infectious disease
expert now is he my favorite infectious
disease expert no of course he isn't
because that would be Salvador Mansur
and it is amazing
but for a man who studied infectious
diseases his whole life the only thing
he ever came down with was a deadly case
of bedroom ice salvadore stop hit and
look that what she is in a tough
position right now he has to balance the
task of communicating real honest
science with this administration's
aversion to every single one of those
words but so far he seems to be doing a
good job the same unfortunately cannot
be said about Trump who attempted to
reassure the nation with a sedated oval
office speech on Wednesday which was a
complete mess despite the fact he was
reading from a prepared statement he
managed to mistakenly claim that imports
from Europe were being cut off which
they were not that insurers would waive
co-pays not just for testing but for
treatment which at present they won't
and he seemed to imply that Americans in
Europe could not get back into the
country which they can and even he
didn't seem entirely satisfied with his
performance because the moment the
speech was over this was his actual
reaction okay yup and that is the okay
of a man who has just completed yet
another substandard job after refusing
to put in even the slightest bit of
effort she knows what I'm talking about
she definitely knows what I'm talking
about this joke is landing so hard with
her right now and for the following days
Trump seemed to be doing his very best
to try and minimize the impact of this
crisis often with a particular focus on
shoring up the stock market a dynamic
perhaps best encapsulated by this
exchange with a reporter
why do you say that they're tanking okay
here's the thing I hate it when the
president lies as much as the next guy
but why would you ask him why do you say
that because the answer to that is
always it's just what he does asking
Trump why he says things are fine when
they're obviously not it's like asking
the wind white whispers why the old
redwood tree grow so tall or why this
cookie is so thick that's just nature
baby it is what it is but again nothing
is fine here
the president's response has sadly been
characterized by disorganization and
lies and the all-time low so far came in
his Rose Garden press conference on
Friday if he saw news coverage after the
fact he may have seen it declared a
national emergency which is good and if
that's all you saw of the press
conference he might have been reassured
but if you watch the whole event there
was a lot there that was pretty
concerning because Trump also
inexplicably felt it important to bring
up a series of CEOs whose companies were
promising to help increase our testing
capability and who for the record
absolutely did not need to be there
especially because for some reason Trump
defied every public health protocol by
shaking their hands patting their backs
and touching the microphone at least 31
times despite the fact he'd been exposed
to people with the virus himself last
weekend at mar-a-lago where a growing
number of guests have since tested
positive which by the way is the rare
instance of the word positive being
associated with any experience at
mar-a-lago but perhaps the most
emblematic response was when he was
asked about the country's disastrous lag
in testing and said I don't take
responsibility at all and then had this
exchange with a reporter you said that
you don't take responsibility but you
did disband the White House pandemic
office and the officials that were
working in that office left this
administration abruptly so what
responsibilities do you take to that and
the officials that worked in that office
said that you that the White House lost
valuable time
that office wasn't disbanded what do you
make of that well I just think it's a
nasty question and when you say me I
didn't do it we have a group of people I
could I could ask perhaps by
administration but I could perhaps ask
Tony about that because I don't know
anything about it I mean you say you say
we did that I don't know anything about
it you don't know stration perhaps they
do that you know people let people go
you used to be with a different
newspaper than you are now you know
things like that happen please go ahead
we're doing a great job
perfect I didn't do it I don't know
anything about it maybe someone in the
administration did it maybe Tony did it
these things happen I don't know again
we're doing a great job that is
reminiscent of Harry Truman's famous
saying the buck stops somewhere over
there maybe Tony Tony you stop that buck
you stop that buck Tony Tony probably
stopped at the point is I don't know
lady I just work here that is a level of
dodging responsibility that Trump has
been perfecting ever since he was very
much not in Vietnam also it feels
important to point out that one of the
marquee announcements in that press
conference was the president's claimed
that Google was rapidly building a
website that would direct people to
drive through testing facilities which
sounds fantastic but you should know
google quickly clarified the site is in
the early stages of development with
plans to roll out testing in the Bay
Area and maybe expand it more broadly
over time so in terms of immediate help
that website is about as effective as
going - is this a cat calm now if you're
not familiar with this website you can
simply upload a photo and it will tell
you with a simple yes or no if the thing
you're looking at is a cat or not see
that the website knows it's a cat now
when I uploaded a picture of a dog the
website says no that's how you know it's
a good website now will it tell you
where the drive-through testing
locations are no it won't do that but
for the time being neither will Trump's
Google thing so you might as well spend
your time looking at things that are and
are not cats
look this is clearly both frustrating
and
really unnerving and is actively
contributing to a sense of confusion in
the country at the moment and at this
point it might really be best for us to
put the president aside don't worry
there is going to be ample time to be
utterly furious with him later but the
fact is even though this should not be
the case it seems we're gonna be a
little bit on our own here and because
of that it might be worth going over
some basic rules that health experts say
we should all absolutely be following to
help stem this outbreak individuals have
been doing their best to spread good
information online including a number of
social media celebrities on tik-tok none
more delightful than this one it's going
on a time I mean that is excellent that
tick tock hamster is now my favorite
thing in the world
and yes I fully understand I have a wife
and two children but I'll say it again
that tick tock hamster is my favorite
thing in the world and it is truly sad
that a hamster just genuinely offered
more useful public health advice in 112
second tick tock than the president has
in multiple addresses to the nation and
let's actually go over what that very
wise ball of fluff was just telling us
first wash your hands for at least 20
seconds that's really good advice it's
basically the time it takes to sing
happy birthday to Oprah twice so it's
time well spent
second make sure you cough and sneeze
into a tissue your elbow or your upper
sleeve not your hand and disinfect
frequently touch surfaces daily third
wear masks only if you have symptoms or
you are a caregiver as it is important
there are enough of these masks
available for medical professionals and
those with respiratory conditions and
finally stay home especially if you're
sick but also if you are not that last
one is part of what's called social
distancing or as President Trump put it
on Twitter with all caps
and no further explanation social
distancing exclamation mark and here's
the thing he makes a fine point but if I
may just expand on that scream tweet a
little social distancing is absolutely
crucial right now the idea is to avoid
crowded places cancel social engagements
avoid unnecessary travel work from home
if that is an option for you and if you
need to buy groceries or use public
transit try to do it at off-peak times
now obviously that is not all feasible
for everyone but if you truly have no
choice but to go out it is vital to
protect yourself and others by keeping a
distance of at least six feet from other
people basically for the time being
pretend you're a British parent and
everyone else in the world is your child
keep as much distance as you can avoid
physical contact at all costs and if any
one of them try to give you a hug reject
it the reason why social distancing is
so important is because it can help us
flatten the curve it's a phrase you've
probably heard a lot this week and what
it means is basically this slow the
spread of the virus so we don't
overwhelm the healthcare system we only
have so many ventilators and hospital
beds and if cases spiked all at once
they could max out our capacity and I
know that there is a temptation to think
hold on this is America I'm sure we have
enough ventilators for even the worst
case scenario we don't we really don't
so it is imperative that we spread cases
out of a longer period of time so that
everyone who needs care can get it and
yes proper social distancing involves
some sacrifice but this is a critical
thing that we should all do for the more
vulnerable among us and the healthcare
workers who are going to be in the
for some time to come
for example of what it looks like when
you do not flatten the curve just look
to the hardest hit areas of Italy where
cases have so overwhelmed the system
doctors have had to make a very
difficult choices about who gets
potentially life-saving treatment and
who doesn't and in addition to
attempting to to quell the spread of the
virus we should also be doing everything
that we can to contain the spread of
misinformation because there is
currently a lot of harmful
flying around there's Alex Jones who
suggested that his toothpaste kills the
whole sauce Corona family at point-blank
range and it would be great if it did
that I would love it if his toothpaste
did that but you know it doesn't there's
multiple commentators who've made
misleading comparisons to the swine flu
and illness with a mortality rate at
least 50 times lower than this one and
then there is Geraldo Rivera who felt it
important to tell Fox viewers this well
you know you've got a fever
or if you can't hold your breath for 10
seconds everyone should do that hold you
breath for 10 seconds if you can hold
your breath for 10 seconds then you
don't have you don't have this this
disease ok I am guessing you
instinctively know this but that's just
not true in any way whatsoever
you can't test for the corona virus by
holding your breath however I do have a
way that Geraldo contest for the corona
virus but this will only work for
Geraldo and absolutely no one else are
you listening Geraldo ok and hold your
breath just like this right you doing it
now keep holding it keep holding it
Geraldo keep holding your breath keep
holding that breath or Aldo I know you
might be feeling dizzy and you might be
about to pass out but don't worry g-man
that just means that the test is working
just keep holding your breath do not
breathe her Aldo don't you breathe right
now your lungs are probably really
burning that just means you're
disinfecting them well done keep holding
your breath I will tell you when to let
it out the point is I know that that may
seem obviously done but there was a ton
of misinformation out there and not all
of it is so obviously so please
be careful before forwarding or
retweeting stuff that you do not know to
be true
our personal actions are really going to
count here and even if you are not
worried about getting this virus other
people especially the elderly and the
immunosuppressed simply don't have that
luxury so it is a good idea to treat
these precautions like you would a flu
shot you don't just get a flu shot for
you you get it for everybody else we all
have a real responsibility to one
another right now because the choices we
make in the coming days and weeks will
contribute directly to how bad this
crisis gets and I know that this
disruption to your life is annoying and
it's okay to be disappointed or even
irritated because you can't go out or
your favorite events were postponed or a
trip you had planned fell through but
you got to get that out of your system
in fact you know what let's put 30
seconds on the clock right now during
which everyone can be selfishly angry
about the things that they didn't want
cancelled or postponed whether it's the
NBA suspending its season or Disney
World being closed or the 9th Fast &
Furious movie being pushed back a year
it's the one John Cena was gonna be in I
mean that stings I'm not gonna say it
doesn't now personally I'm going to be
spending at the next 30 seconds being
furious about the fact that my favorite
football team Liverpool were literally
two games away from winning the league
championship before games were suspended
so let's start the clock now cuz here's
the thing I've waited my entire adult
life for this they were about to win the
title for the first time in 30 years
they were 25 points ahead of Man City 25
points that's historic margin and you
telling me could be for nothing most of
our deserves to be a Premier League
champion the coach Jurgen Klopp deserve
this and I know he has specifically
pointed out in a beautiful essay you
should look up that we should not worry
about the league right now we should
keep thinking perspective but the very
fact that he wrote something like that
just makes me wanting to win the title
even more I wanted I want to see the
trophy gods of exactly dates okay okay
that's it that's it we're out of time
it's out of my system now it just feels
like they should really give Liverpool
the league title because they basically
want it that would actually be fair okay
okay it's okay I'm done
it's just cuz it's not like anyone's
gonna catch off from the 25 point
deficit okay you're right
you are right
sports are not important right now
they're not important right now I mean
they're not really important ever but
they're especially not important now
look I know things are currently very
scary and things are going to be weird
for a while for weeks and honestly more
likely months and the fact that that is
true makes it even more important that
going forward we're gonna need to look
out for one another and not just in
terms of containing the transmission of
this virus but also in terms of the
economic impact that this is going to
have on people who may well not be able
to weather it this is got to be an
unsettling a potentially lonely time so
think about calling all the relatives or
neighbors or just anyone that you know
who may be vulnerable or feeling
isolated one small way you can help is
by donating financially to your local
food bank there is a directory of those
at feeding America org and just to
reiterate try your best I know it's hot
but try your best to tune out and not
pass on misinformation in the coming
weeks from sources like sadly the
president and instead pay more attention
to trustworthy information from the CDC
experts like Anthony Falchi and of
course
tick tock hamsters always tick tock
hamsters take care of yourself take care
of each other and we will be back in
some form sometime in the future and
until then stay safe and good night
[Music]
we're clear okay